As Kuhn defines it, a paradigm is a set of theories, ideas, abstractions, beliefs that “provide models from which spring particular traditions of scientific research” (1996). Kuhn’s examples of paradigm shifts, which are primarily from the physical sciences, include Aristotelian dynamics, Copernicanastronomy, Newtonian optics, and Einstein’s theories of
relativity. A paradigm shift is a crisis brought on by conflict between two or more paradigms, in which the “fittest” paradigm survives. There is no synthesis: Kuhn claims that paradigms are incommensurable (incompatible), hence the crisis; the resulting change is comparable to a revolution. Implicit in this argument is the claim that science is an instrument for solving problems. Thus, Kuhn’s evolutionary and instrumental model of science calls into question the teleology (purpose) of the scientific enterprise. As Kuhn states, “we may...have to relinquish the notion...that changes of paradigm carry scientists closer and closer to the truth” (1996). 

Acording to Dosi, technological para-
digms represent one general sphere or field of technology, within which the search for the
innovation is conducted by a larger group of innovators, within certain historical context
[5]. 

It is very likely that the tech-
nological paradigm will be based on the selected set of principles. Th

When a new technological paradigm appears, it represents a great discontinuity or a
change of the way of thinking. The change brought by the paradigm may be related to
some form of radical innovation which applies some new technology. Do



A paradigm denotes a collection of rules, standards, and examples of scientific prac-
tice, shared by a group of scientists, to which the preconditions for genesis and continua-
tion of the research tradition are: commitment and consensus arising from it. 

The existing phase of the living cycle of dominant technological paradigm changes the
driving impulses of economic growth. The key role in forming every new technological
paradigm belongs to disruptive innovations. Thus, the replacement of the old technologi-
cal paradigm by a new one is provided owing to those innovations. 

[5] Dosi, G. (1982) Technological paradigms and technological trajectories, Research Policy, No. 11.


